

This is a reconstruction of the biochemical network of the yeast
_Saccharomyces cerevisiae_ carried out at a jamboree organized in April 2007
in the Manchester Centre for Integrative Systems Biology. It is the result of
a consensus merger of two previous reconstructions.

Technical notes:

  * The compartments included here have no volume defined; there are no reliable estimates available for those volumes yet.
  * There are no kinetic functions defined for the reactions because this model only represents the chemical structure of the network (stoichiometry).
  * All reactions are marked reversible because all chemical reactions are reversible.

The model is described in the article and available as supplementary material:  
**A consensus yeast metabolic network reconstruction obtained from a community approach to systems biology.**  
Herrgård MJ, Swainston N _et al._ , _Nat Biotechnol._ 2008 Oct;26(10):1155-60.
PMID: [18846089](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18846089) , doi:
[10.1038/nbt1492](http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nbt1492)  
**Abstract:**  
Genomic data allow the large-scale manual or semi-automated assembly of
metabolic network reconstructions, which provide highly curated organism-
specific knowledge bases. Although several genome-scale network
reconstructions describe Saccharomyces cerevisiae metabolism, they differ in
scope and content, and use different terminologies to describe the same
chemical entities. This makes comparisons between them difficult and
underscores the desirability of a consolidated metabolic network that collects
and formalizes the 'community knowledge' of yeast metabolism. We describe how
we have produced a consensus metabolic network reconstruction for S.
cerevisiae. In drafting it, we placed special emphasis on referencing
molecules to persistent databases or using database-independent forms, such as
SMILES or InChI strings, as this permits their chemical structure to be
represented unambiguously and in a manner that permits automated reasoning.
The reconstruction is readily available via a publicly accessible database and
in the Systems Biology Markup Language (http://www.comp-sys-bio.org/yeastnet).
It can be maintained as a resource that serves as a common denominator for
studying the systems biology of yeast. Similar strategies should benefit
communities studying genome-scale metabolic networks of other organisms.

Up to date versions can be found under <http://www.comp-sys-bio.org/yeastnet/>

This SBML representation of the yeast metabolic network is made available
under the Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 Unported Licence (see
[www.creativecommons.org](http://www.creativecommons.org) ).

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not.

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Novère N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

